## Running the Code

### Starting the Project
NodeJS is required to run this project.
The Web server itself used to service this project can be initialized with the following command:

```bash
cd stshoemake
npm install
```

Then, from the `stshoemake` folder, the Web server can be spun up repeatedly with the command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will use Vite to launch the app. The command line should give the web address required to connect, (in my case, it was always `http://localhost:5173/`)


### Updating Article Data
As long as the folder and csv structure is maintained, all data for the project (the line graph, the tsne plot, etc) can be swapped out, with one exception.

Swapping out text files in the `stshoemake/data/stocknews/` folder has an extra step that needs to be taken. Instead of retriving files on the backend like normal, I wanted to pull all data solely from the frontend. However, FE functions cannot search the file system, meaning that the TypeScript program cannot naturally scan the directory for new files.

Instead, file names are fed to it through the object in `stshoemake/data/stocknews/filenames.json`. I wrote a python script, located in `stshoemake/scripts/populateFilenames.py` that will automatically update this json object. The script has to be manually run after data in stocknews is changed. It is a very simple script that only requires 'json' and 'os' as imports - any basic python environment should be able to run it.

Changing out the data in stocknews without taking this step will cause the program to fail. This script will not accept any files that do not end in .txt.

Note a lot of the news stories provided are identical - I used the HW1_Solution code to generate the text files and copied them directly from there. I'm not sure why, but the files themselves that are like this are identical.

## Use of GenAI
No code generated by GenAI was copy + pasted into this assignment.
Google Gemini 3 Flash (the one built-in to Google Search) was used for reference in a handful of places

## Other References
This repository was created as a homework assignment for UC Davis Spring 2026 ECS 273 class. It is a fork of the repository that cacn be cloned below:

```
git clone git@github.com:via-teaching/ecs273-26s.git
```