# Running the Project

## Project Setup (First-Time Only)

### Installing Client Dependencies
The client requires that the npm CLI is installed, which can be downloaded here [link](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

Afterwards, the only command needed for setup is as follows:

```bash
cd client
npm install
```

### Installing Server Dependencies
This project requires that you have python installed, and a virtual environment for the project is recommended.

All code should be run from the server folder:

```bash
cd server
```

After which, all requirements can be installed from the requirements text file. Be sure to run this from your virtual environment, if using one:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Starting MongoDB
How often the MongoDB database will need to be started depends on how the database is installed and run on your local system. For Ubuntu's systemctl, for example, the server always instantiates at device runtime (unless specified otherwise). Best practice would be to always check that it is active every time a terminal used to run the server is opened.

This README does not include a guide for installing a version of mongodb for your device, only how to start an already installed version of mongodb.

for mongodb managed with homebrew, run:

```
brew services start mongodb-community
```

Or similarly, if you are using Ubuntu, install the mongod service and launch it using:

```
sudo systemctl start mongod
```

## Project Startup (Every-Time)

### Importing Data
Every time new files are needed for stock data, news, or tsne information (located in `server/data`), their data needs to be imported into the database.

The database needs to be running (see above instructions).

Using python (the venv created earlier, if relevant), from the `server` folder, simply run:

```
python import_data.py
```

After this, all data is stored in the database. On Ubuntu, the data persists in the database even after it is stopped and started again - meaning files can safely be removed.

### Running the Backend
This needs to be done every time you close out of the previous terminal that was running the backend.

It requires that the mongodb service is running, and that you are in your python venv (if relevant).

```
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
```

### Running the Frontend
This needs to be done every time you close out of the previous terminal that was running the frontend.

As with installing client dependencies, it requires npm.

```
npm run dev
```

### Viewing the App
After all the prior steps, the application should be visible from the following web address:

`http://localhost:5173/`

### Known Issues
There is currently no news data for the MMM ticker. The FastAPI backend (the uvicorn command) will give a warning about this when starting. Missing stock data and stock news are handled on the frontend and backend, so this is not an issue.



# Use of GenAI
No code generated by GenAI was copy + pasted into this assignment.
Google Gemini 3 Flash (the one built-in to Google Search) was used for reference in a handful of FastAPI tasks

# Other References
This repository was created as a homework assignment for UC Davis Spring 2026 ECS 273 class. It is a fork of the repository that can be cloned below:

```
git clone git@github.com:via-teaching/ecs273-26s.git
```